GSoC 2019 Report (#2655)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2020/01/2020-01-24-gsoc-report.adoc

We know we cannot make the perfect decision, and by experience, we know that some students or some mentors will not be able to complete the program due to uncontrollable life events, even for the outstanding proposals.
So we have to make the best decision knowing that some of our choices won't complete the program.

**Community Bonding**.
We have found that the link:https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/resources/glossary#community_bonding_period[community bonding phase] was crucial to the success of each project.
Usually projects that don’t do well during community bonding have difficulties later on.
In order to get students involved into the community better, almost all projects were handled under umbrella of link:/sigs[Special Interest Groups] so that there were more stakeholders and communications.

**Communications**.
Every year we have students who contact mentors via personal messages.
Students, if you are reading this, please do **NOT** send us personal messages about the projects, you will not receive any preferential treatment.
Obviously, in open source we want all discussions to be public, so students have to be reminded of that regularly.

> In 2019 were using Gitter chat for most communications, but from an admin point of view this is more fragmented than mailing lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2019 we are using Gitter chat for most communications, but from an admin point of view this is more fragmented than mailing lists.
```

Author: Nicely spotted. Fixed. Thanks!
